Indigenous
for the
Element
Description
Validation Rule
Rational for new Element
Social Insurance Number
Must be a valid Social Insurance Number
The Social Insurance Number (SIN) is not valid
Last Name
Use last name based on valid identification.
The Last Name must not only contain numbers
Initials
Initials of client’s middle name. If a client does not have an initial(s), leave this field blank.
First Name
Use first name based on valid identification.
The First Name must not only contain numbers
Date of Birth
Must be within one (1) and one hundred (100) years old.
The Date of Birth must not be a date in the future
The Date of Birth must be between 1 and 100 years inclusively
Gender
Male
Female
Unspecified
Unspecified should be used when a client is unable or does not want to identify with either male or female.
Aboriginal Group
Registered Indian
Non-status Indian
Métis
Inuit
Based on self-identification or as established the contribution agreement.
Marital Status
Married or equivalent
Single
Divorced
Widowed
Separated
Specifies the client’s marital status.
Number of Dependent Children
Number of dependent children at home aged eighteen (18) or less.
Number of dependent children at home aged eighteen (18) or less.
Language Spoken
Aboriginal language(s) only
English only
French only
Aboriginal language(s) and English
Aboriginal language(s) and French
English and French
Aboriginal language(s), English and French
None of the above
Language(s) spoken by the client.
Disability
No
Yes
Based on self-identification.
Postal Address – Street
Specifies a unique location on a street, roadway, or artery within a municipality, based on identification information provided by municipal and/or officially recognized authorities. May also be a postal office box (i.e. PO Box or postal box).
If the client does not have an address, “No Address” must be used instead. Please do not input your organization’s address.
Postal Address – City
An area commonly recognized as constituting a town, village, city, an official municipality, or a local area that is generally deemed locally to have the status of an official municipality or reserve.
If the client does not have a city, the city of the organization may be used.
Postal Address – Province
Newfoundland / Labrador
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Ontario
Manitoba
Saskatchewan
Alberta
British Columbia
Northwest Territories
Yukon
Nunavut
United States
Other country
The province or country of residence at the time of opening of an Action Plan.
If client does not have an address, use organization’s province.
Postal Code
Specifies the client’s postal code (may be outside Canada). A code used by various postal authorities in the world (zip code in the USA) to identify a relatively small (10-1,000 people) delivery location.
Where the client is homeless (i.e. client has no address and postal code), “No Postal Code” must be used.
The first letter of the Postal Code does not match the Province selected
Agreement Number
Must be a valid CRF or EI agreement number.
The “Agreement Number” is not valid
Client Status at Intake
Employed
Unemployed
Student
Previously the definition of an eligible client was a person who was unemployed and not in full time school.
Changes to client eligibility in ISETS and with EI Part II funds, expands that definition to include clients who are in full time school and employed.
Reporting on the types of clients being served will be necessary to understand how the program impacts the variety of participants.
Employed Client Details at Intake – National Occupational Code (NOC)
When the Client Status at the intake is
ISETS aims to close the skills gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous populations.
Employed Client Details at Intake – Status
Full-time
Part-time
When the Client Status at the intake is
“
employed
”
, the status of the current employment needs to be provided.
Education Level
No formal education
Up to Grade 7-8 (Secondaire I-II)
Grade 9-10 (Secondaire. III)
Grade 11-12 (Secondaire
Secondary School Diploma or GED
Some post-secondary training
Apprenticeship or trades certificate or diploma
College, CEGEP, or other non-university certificate or diploma
University certificate or diploma
University - Bachelor Degree
University - Master’s Degree
University - Doctorate
Highest level of education attained at the time of creation of Action Plan.
No formal education: did not attend school
Up to Grade 7-8: includes primary level grades 1-6,
Grades 9-10 (Sec II and III)
Grade 11-12 ([Sec IV and V] credits, but not enough to graduate).
High school (Sec V) diploma or equivalent (includes those recognized by the Ministère d’éducation du Québec (MEQ) and First Nation secondary school diploma (as these are often recognized by CEGEPS for enrolment, but not by the MEQ).
Some post-secondary training: client attended post-secondary training but did not complete a program.
Apprenticeship and journeyman cards (trades certificate) or vocational training diploma (DEP- diplômes d’études professionnelles) work related safety cards and other trade certifications.
College, CEGEP
University certificate or diploma below bachelor level (includes credited and non-credited geared to support/compliment/validate current employment)
Social Assistance Recipient
No
Yes
Is the client a Social Assistance Recipient at the time of the creation of the Action Plan?
Employment Insurance Claimant
Employment insurance claimant
Reach-back client/former claimant
Non-insured client
Type of Employment Insurance Claimant when starting the Action Plan.
Barriers to employment
None
Lack of labour force attachment
Lack of work experience
Lack of transportation
Remoteness
Language
Education
Economic
Dependent care
Lack of marketable skills
Physical or mental health
Other barrier not listed above
A barrier to employment can be lack of work experience or transportation, physical or mental health issues, no access to care for children or family member, etc.
None: Client does not have barrier to employment.
Lack of labour force attachment: a client who has been out of the job market for more than 3 years.
Lack of work experience: Client has little or no work experience
Lack of transportation: Client who does not have access to any type of transportation to get to their place of employment or to a counsellor.
Remoteness: Client lives in a remote area that has little or no access to job opportunities or no suitable jobs locally.
Language: Client lacks fluency in the language required for the local job market.
Education: Client who has insufficient education (i.e. less than high school).
Economic: Client does not have financial resources to purchase required equipment (boots, uniforms); costs for relocation, etc., needed to obtain employment.
Dependent care: Client does not have access to care for children or family member.
Lack of marketable skills: As a result of a shift in labour market demand, the client does not have the required marketable skills (i.e. IT innovation).
Client has a physical or mental health barrier
Other barrier not listed above: Client who identifies a barrier not provided in the list.
If “Barriers to Employment” is "None" then no other barriers must be selected
Action Plan Start Date
Start date of Action Plan.
A client shall not have more than one active Action Plan at a time. In order to have a new Action Plan, an Action Plan Result Date of the previous Action Plan must be provided.
Please do not change the Action Plan Start Date on a client Action Plan after an upload has been completed at the Data Gateway.
The “Action Plan Start Date” must not be a date in the future
The “Action Plan Start Date” must not be before year 2000
The “Action Plan Start Date” must be before the “Action Plan Result Date”
The “Action Plan Start Date” must be before the “Intervention Start Date”
Action Plan Result Date
End date of Action Plan. Date when the final outcome of the Action Plan was reached. Current Action Plan Result Date must have a value in order to start another Action Plan.
The “Action Plan Result Date” must not be a date in the future
The “Action Plan Result Date” must not be before the “Action Plan Start Date”
An “Action Plan Result Date” is required when the “Action Plan Result Code” is provided
Action Plan Result
Unemployed but available for work
Employed
Self-Employed
Returned to School
Unspecified – client could not be reached
No longer in labour force
Stay in School
Ready for Work
Final result of the Action Plan. The result is the final outcome of the Action Plan.
Employed
Returned to School
Unspecified – unable to reach client: Client cannot be reached by telephone or by other means.
No longer in labour force: Client may be deceased, incarcerated, no longer actively searching for work.
Stay in School: Client was already at school and stayed at school after completing the action plan.
Ready for Work: Client has completed all of the interventions and he/she ready to go on the labour market, but did not found a job at the end of the action plan.
Expanded Action Plan Results speaks to successful interventions that result in youth staying in school or others may successfully
Details on the Employed Result - National Occupation Code (NOC)
When a client finds a job at the end of the action plan, the National Occupation Code of the employment needs to be provided.
Knowing this closes a gap in understanding what sorts of jobs people find.
Details on the Return to School Result
Secondary School
College
Other non-university
University
When a client returns to school at the end of the action plan, the type of school that the client is going back to needs to be provided.
Knowing this closes a gap in understanding what type of school participant move on to. Key to this is that the client goes for further studies without the financial support of the ISETS.
Highest
No formal education
Up to Grade 7-8 (Secondaire I-II)
Grade 9-10 (Secondaire.
III)
Grade 11-12 (Secondaire IV-V)
Secondary School Diploma or GED
Some post-secondary training
Apprenticeship or trades certificate or diploma
College, CEGEP, or other non-university certificate or diploma
University certificate or diploma
University - Bachelor Degree
University - Master’s Degree
University – Doctorate
Provide the highest level of education of the client after completing the action plan.
Success for ISETS extends beyond the client finding a job or returning to school. Up grading of education levels will be supported in ISETS and changes in education credentials is also seen as a measure of success.
Intervention Code
Career Research and Exploration
Diagnostic Assessment
Employment Counselling
Skills Development - Essential Skills
Skills Development - Academic Upgrading
Work Experience - Job Creation Partnerships
Work Experience - Wage Subsidy
Work Experience - Student Employment
Occupational Skills Training - Certificate
Occupational Skills Training - Diploma
Occupational Skills Training - Degree
Occupational Skills Training - Apprenticeship
Occupational Skills Training - Vocational
/
Industry Recognized
Self-employment
Job Search Preparation Strategies
Job Starts Supports
Employer Referral
Employment Retention Supports
Referral to Agencies
Pre-Career Development
See Attached
20. Pre-Career Development
Developmental
A 20
th
supports that give
Intervention Start Date
Start date of the intervention. An Action Plan must have at least one (1) intervention.
The “Intervention Start Date” must not be before year 2000
The “Intervention Start Date” must not be before the “Action Plan Start Date”
The “Intervention Start Date” must not be after the “Intervention End Date”
Intervention End Date
End date of the intervention. An Action Plan must have at least one (1) Intervention. It may contain many interventions.
The “Intervention End Date” must not be later than the "Action Plan Result Date”
Intervention Outcome
Completed
In progress
Incomplete
Failed to report
Cancelled
Rescheduled
Outcome of Intervention.
When the “Action Plan Result Date” is provided the “Intervention Outcome” is required
Intervention Related National Occupation Code
National Occupation Code related to training or work experience based interventions.
Applicable to:
6 - Work Experience - Job Creation Partnerships
7 - Work Experience - Wage Subsidy
8 - Work Experience - Student Employment
9 - Occupational Skills Training - Certificate
10 - Occupational Skills Training - Diploma
11 - Occupational Skills Training - Degree
12 - Occupational Skills Training - Apprenticeship
13 - Occupational Skills Training - Vocational
When the “Intervention Code” is 6 to 13 the “Intervention Related NOC” is required
The “Intervention Related NOC” must be a valid NOC
The following intervention was removed from the list.
4 – Skills Development – Essential Skills
As mentioned at the National Data Workshop, the NOC should not be required for the Essential skills intervention. Most of these interventions are not related to a specific occupation.
Element to be Removed / Deactivated
Element
Description
Validation Rule
Rational
Telephone Number
Specifies the client’s telephone number.
If the client does not have a telephone number, “No Telephone” must be used. Please do not input your organization’s telephone number.
Responsibility Centre
System derived (based on and not part of data exchange (i.e. not uploaded).
Province of Education
Newfoundland / Labrador
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Ontario
Manitoba
Saskatchewan
Alberta
British Columbia
Northwest Territories
Yukon
Nunavut
Outside Canada
Province (or area outside Canada) in which highest level of education was attained.
Action Plan Childcare Need
No
Yes
Is childcare required for this Action Plan?
When the “Action Plan Childcare Need” is "No" the “Action Plan Child Care Funded” must be "Not Applicable"
When the “Action Plan Childcare Need” is "Yes" the “Action Plan Child Care Funded” must not be "Not Applicable"
Action Plan Childcare Funding
Not applicable
FNICCI
EI/CRF
Provincial funding or subsidy
No funding received
Daycare space not available
Assisted by family/self-funded
Type of financial support allocated to childcare.
Not applicable: answered no to Action Plan Childcare Need
No funding received: Client is eligible but there is no funding available.
Assisted by family/self-funded: denotes childcare that is being provided by a family member or client has sought assistance from another source not listed.
When the “Action Plan Childcare Need” is "No" the “Action Plan Child Care Funded” must be "Not Applicable"
When the “Action Plan Childcare Need” is "Yes" the “Action Plan Child Care Funded” must not be "Not Applicable"
Action Plan Cost
System derived (calculated from associated Intervention Costs) and not part of data exchange (i.e. not uploaded).
Intervention Duration
The total number of days a client is involved in an intervention. Do not count days where no action was required on the part of the client.
Note:
The “Intervention Duration” must not be longer the time span between the “Intervention Start Date” and the “Intervention End Date”
When the “Action Plan Result Date” is provided the “Intervention Duration” is required
Intervention Cost
Budgeted costs are the approved budget for a particular client or project (at the time application was approved).
For a client in project-based training, budgeted costs are to be calculated by dividing total approved budget for the project by the number of clients in the project at the time of intervention start date.
Note for clients who may be on a targeted wage subsidy intervention:
When the “Action Plan Result Date” is provided the “Intervention Cost” is required
When the “Intervention End Date” is provided the “Intervention Cost” is required